# The DOM (Document Object Model)

## Inserting JavaScript into a Website
* We can use javascript in our website through different ways: we can use it in a embedded way in the HTML file, we can use it in an internal way also inside the HTML file and we can use it in an external way in a separate .js file.
  * Embedded: We put our javascript code inside double quotes ```""``` as a value for an HTML attribute called ```onload```. This way has a lot of downsides: it is not modular, it is difficult to debug and, thus, is not a good practice.
  * Internal: It's a better option. To use this, we put the JS code inside the ```script``` tag in the HTML file. Take a look at the example below:
```HTML
<script type="text/javascript">
    alert("Hello World!");
</script>
```
  * External: It's the best option. To use this, we must put the path to our JS file inside the ```<script></script>``` tag in the HTML file. Take a look at the example below:
```HTML
<script src="index.js" charset="utf-8"></script>
```

## Important Notes
* __Always put the path to the CSS file in the head of the HTML file.__
* __Always put the path to the JS file at the end of the ```<body></body>``` tag in the HTML file.__

## DOM (Document Object Model)
* It's a tree structure generated by the browser that allows the JS code to change the elements inside the HTML file.
* The basic structure of the DOM is the following:
```
Document -> HTML -> Head -> ...
                 -> Body -> ...
```
* Every object (HTML element) that is inside the DOM has __properties__ and __methods__ that can be used to make our website dynamic.
* __Some examples of properties are: ```.innerHTML```, ```.style```, ```.firstElementChild```, ```.lastElementChild```.__
* __Some examples of methods are: ```.click()```, ```.appendChild()```, ```.setAttribute()```.__
  
## Selecting HTML elements with Javascript
* In this section, we are going to see a bunch of different methods that are used to select HTML elements with JavaScript. Let's check them out:
* ```document.getElementsByTagName('li')```: This method is used to select HTML elements through their names. It's going to fetch all the HTML elements that have this particular tag name. It's going to return an array that contains all elements with that particular tag name. Check this example of use case:
```JavaScript
document.getElementsByTagName('li')[2].style.color = "purple";
//In the code snippet above, I changed the color of the content in the third "li" element to purple.
```
* ```document.getElementsByClassName('nameOfTheClass')```: This method is used to fetch all HTML elements that have the same ClassName. It's going to return an array. Even we only have one HTML element that has that particular ClassName.
* ```document.getElementById('nameOfTheID')```: This method is used to fetch the HTML element that has that particular ID.
* ```document.querySelector('nameOfHTMLElement or .className or #IDName')```: This method is used to select HTML elements from a HTML file using different types of selector. As an example:
  * We can use it to select a simple HTML element: ```Javascript  document.querySelector('h1')```
  * We can use it to select a HTML element based on its className: ```JavaScript document.querySelector('.btn')```
  * We can use it to select a HTML element based on its ID: ```JavaScript document.querySelector('#major-card')```

## More about ```document.querySelector()```
* We can apply our tagNames in a certain way in order to select a specific HTML element (In respect to hierarchy). Take a look at the example below:
```JavaScript
document.querySelector("ul li.list a").style.color = "red";
```
* Let's say that we want to select an ```<a></a>``` inside a ```<li></li>```. In order to do that, we can do: ```document.querySelector('li a');```. We separate them using spaces because they are different elements.
* Let's say that we want to select a ```<li></li>``` that also has a class of ```item```. To do that, we can code: ```document.querySelector('li.item');```. Here, we do not separate using spaces because we are dealing with only one HTML element.
* __IMPORTANT: When dealing with ```document.querySelector()```, we only get back the first HTML element that matches the specific selector.__

## About ```document.querySelectorAll()```
* It is a different method from ```document.querySelector()``` because instead of returning just the first HTML element that matches a specific selector, it's going to return all HTML elements that match that specific selector.
* It returns an array with all the desired HTML elements.

## Using JavaScript to manipulate the style (CSS) of HTML elements
* We can use JS for that purpose, but keep in mind that the name of some CSS properties might be different in JS due to the fact that JS use camelCase notation to its methods and properties.
* For more info about these names in JS, search for ```DOM Style Object```.
